MIKE WALTZ TAKES 'FULL RESPONSIBILITY' FOR SIGNAL GROUP CHAT LEAK

US National Security Adviser Mike Waltz has taken responsibility for a
group chat in which high-ranking officials planned military strikes in
Yemen in the company of a journalist who was inadvertently added.

"I take full responsibility. I built the group," Waltz told Fox News
on Tuesday, adding it was "embarrassing".

President Donald Trump and US intelligence chiefs have downplayed the
security risks and said no classified material was shared.

But Democrats and some Republicans have called for an investigation
into what several lawmakers have described as a major breach.

Atlantic magazine editor-in-chief Jeffrey Goldberg reported that he
was accidentally added to the Signal chat by a user named Mike Waltz.

In his article that broke the story he says he saw classified military
plans for US strikes in Yemen, including weapons packages, targets and
timing, two hours before the bombs struck. That content was held back
from the piece.

Waltz was unable to explain in his Fox News interview how Goldberg
came to be on the chat but - contradicting Trump - he said a member of
his staff was not responsible and another, unnamed contact of his was
supposed to be there in Goldberg's place.

"We've got the best technical minds looking at how this happened,"
Waltz continued, adding that Goldberg's number had not been on his
phone.

"I can tell you for 100% I don't know this guy," Waltz said, adding
that he had spoken to Elon Musk for help in finding out what happened.

When pressed further by show host Laura Ingraham on how the number got
added, Waltz responded: "Well, if you have somebody else's contact,
then somehow it â€¦ gets sucked in. It gets sucked in."

President Trump has played down the incident, calling it a "glitch"
that had "no impact at all" operationally.

Speaking to Newsmax, Trump said somebody who worked with Mike Waltz at
a lower level had Goldberg's phone number.

US Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard and CIA Director
John Ratcliffe denied at a Senate hearing on Tuesday that any
classified information was shared in the message chain.

But Democrats questioned that, given the reporting from Goldberg, and
asked them to release all the information if it was not classified.

The Signal group chat also included accounts identified as being
Vice-President JD Vance and Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth.

Mark Warner, Democratic vice-chairman of the Senate Intelligence
Committee, said: "This Signal chat situation sheds light on a sloppy
and grossly incompetent national security strategy from the Trump
administration."

In his reporting, Goldberg said the officials on the chat had
discussed the potential for Europe to pay for US protection of key
shipping lanes.

"Whether it's now or several weeks from now, it will have to be the
United States that reopens these shipping lanes," the account
associated with Waltz wrote on 14 March.

He added his team was working with the defence and state departments
"to determine how to compile the cost associated and levy them on the
Europeans" - at Trump's request.

At one point in the thread the Vance account griped that the strikes
would benefit the Europeans, because of their reliance on those
shipping lanes, adding: "I just hate bailing Europe out again."

The user identified as Hegseth responded three minutes later: "VP: I
fully share your loathing of European free-loading. It's PATHETIC."

The revelation has sent shockwaves through Washington, prompting a
lawsuit and questions about why high-ranking officials discussed such
sensitive matters on a potentially vulnerable civilian app.

Some national security experts have argued that the leak was a major
operational lapse, and archive experts warned that it violated laws on
presidential record keeping.

American Oversight, non-partisan watchdog group, sued the officials
who participated in the chat for alleged violations of the Federal
Records Act and Administrative Procedure Act.

The group said that by setting the chat to automatically delete
messages, the group violated a law requiring White House officials to
submit their records to the National Archives.

The National Security Agency warned employees only last month of
vulnerabilities in Signal, according to documents obtained by the
BBC's US partner CBS.

_With additional reporting by Kayla Epstein, Bernd Debusmann Jr and
Brandon Drenon_
