WHO ARE ISRAELI HOSTAGES RELEASED AND RESCUED FROM GAZA?

A TOTAL OF 25 HOSTAGES HELD BY HAMAS IN GAZA HAVE BEEN RELEASED ALIVE
AS PART OF A LONG-AWAITED CEASEFIRE DEAL WITH ISRAEL, WHICH BEGAN ON
19 JANUARY 2025.

The bodies of another eight hostages have also been handed over by
Hamas under the deal, which has seen around 1,900 Palestinian
prisoners in Israeli jails freed in exchange.

Five living Thai nationals have also been released outside the
framework.

On 22 February, Eliya Cohen, Omer Shem Tov and Omer Wenkert were
released in Nuseirat, central Gaza, while Avera Mengistu and Tal
Shoham were freed in Rafah, southern Gaza. The sixth and final hostage
Hisham al-Sayed was handed over to the Red Cross in a private exchange
in Gaza City.

The final exchange of the ceasefire deal's six-week-long first phase
took place on 26 February, when the bodies of four Israeli hostages
were returned.

Negotiations on the second phase are yet to begin.

LAST UPDATED ON 27 FEBRUARY 2025

HOSTAGES RELEASED DURING 2025 CEASEFIRE DEAL

ELIYA COHEN, 27, and his girlfriend Ziv Abud fled the attack on the
Supernova music festival on 7 October 2023 and hid in a bomb shelter
with relatives and friends. However, Hamas gunmen found the shelter
and opened fire. Eliya was discovered and driven away, but Ziv
escaped.

OMER SHEM TOV, 22, initially made a getaway from the festival in his
car but was captured when he tried to rescue his friends, Maya and
Itai Regev. All three were taken captive - the Regev siblings were
released during a week-long ceasefire in November 2023. His mother
said he was kept alone in an underground tunnel for the vast majority
of his time in captivity.

TAL SHOHAM, 40, was taken from Kibbutz Be'eri. His wife, Adi, their
two young children, and his mother-in-law, Dr Shosham Haran, were also
captured but released in November 2023. Dr Haran's husband, Avshalom,
was killed during the 7 October attack.

OMER WENKERT, 23, sent a message to his family to say he was going to
a safe shelter after the Supernova music festival was attacked, but he
then lost contact with them. His family said they saw Hamas video
footage of Omer, including a photo of him handcuffed and wearing only
underwear. In an Instagram post published following his release, Omer
said the first thing he had told his mother upon their reunification
was: "I defeated captivity."

HISHAM AL-SAYED, 37,is a Bedouin Arab Israeli who had been held by
Hamas since he entered Gaza on his own in 2015. Hamas said he and
Avera Mengistu were soldiers, but Israeli documents seen by Human
Rights Watch show that both were civilians exempted from military
service. Hisham's family said he was diagnosed with schizophrenia and
entered Gaza while in mental distress. Following his release, Hisham's
father said Hamas had "played politics on the back of a mentally ill
man".

AVERA MENGISTU, 39 an Ethiopian-Israeli, was seized by Hamas after
entering Gaza on his own in 2014. In January Hamas released a short
undated video clip of a man who mumbled in Hebrew: "I am the captive
Avera Mengistu. For how much longer will I remain in captivity with my
friends." After he was released, his family said he had endured 10
years of "unimaginable suffering".

YAIR HORN, 46, an Israeli-Argentine dual citizen and construction
worker, was in Nir Oz at the time of the attack. He has been released
but his brother, EITAN, 38, who works in education and was taken at
the same time as Yair, remains in Gaza.

ALEXANDER (SASHA) TROUFANOV, 29, was taken hostage with his mother
Lena, his partner Sapir Cohen, and his grandmother, Irina Tati. All
were abducted from Kibbutz Nir Oz as they spent the Sabbath together.
Irina, Sapir and Lena were released in November 2023. Alexander was
freed on 15 February.

SAGUI DEKEL-CHEN, 36, an American-Israeli citizen, has been missing
since Hamas's attack on Nir Oz. Since his abduction, his wife Avital
has given birth to their third child, a girl named Shahar. Sagui was
released on 15 February.

OHAD BEN AMI, 55, was kidnapped from Kibbutz Be'eri with his wife,
Raz. She was later released by Hamas. Ohad freed on 8 February.

ELI SHARABI, 52, was taken from Be'eri with his brother, Yossi, since
confirmed dead. Eli's wife and two daughters were murdered in the
attack. Ofir Engel, the boyfriend of Yossi's daughter, Yuval, was also
taken, but released on 29 November. Eli was released by Hamas on 8
February.

OR LEVY, 34, fled the festival with his wife Eynav, and phoned his
mother to say they were hiding in a bomb shelter. Israeli forces later
told the family that Eynav's body had been found in the shelter and
that Or had been kidnapped. Or was freed from Gaza on 8 February.

OFER KALDERON, 54, was taken by Hamas from Nir Oz, along with his two
children, Erez and Sahar. Two other family members - 80-year-old
Carmela Dan and her granddaughter, Noya, 12 - were killed in the
attack. In November 2023, Erez and Sahar were released. Ofer was
released on 1 February as part of the ceasefire agreement.

YARDEN BIBAS, 34, was abducted from Nir Oz along with his wife, Shiri,
and their two young children, Ariel and Kfir, who were killed in
captivity. Yarden was released on 1 February, while the bodies of
Shiri, Ariel and Kfir were handed over by Hamas on 20 February.

KEITH SIEGEL, 65, and his wife Adrienne - often known as Aviva -
Siegel, were taken from their home in Kfar Aza. Adrienne was released
in November 2023. Keith was freed on 1 February.

AGAM BERGER, 20, is a soldier who was kidnapped from the Nahal Oz
military base. She was seen being taken away in videos released by
Hamas and was released on 30 January.

ARBEL YEHUD, 29, was abducted from Nir Oz along with her partner,
27-year-old Ariel Cunio and his brother, David. She was freed on 30
January, but Ariel and David remain in captivity.

GADI MOSES, 80, was also abducted from Nir Oz, where he worked as an
agricultural expert. His partner, Efrat Katz, was killed in the
attack. He appeared in a Hamas propaganda video in December 2023, and
was also released on 30 January.

The five Thai nationals released by Hamas on 30 January were WATCHARA
SRIAOUN, BANNAWAT SEATHAO, SATHIAN SUWANNAKHAM, PONGSAK THAENNA and
SURASAK LAMNAO. They were farm labourers who had all been working in
southern Israel when they were kidnapped during the 7 October attack.

NAAMA LEVY, 20, was filmed being bundled into a jeep, her hands tied
behind her back. The footage was released by Hamas and circulated
widely on social media. According to her mother, the teenager had just
begun her military service. Naama was freed on 25 January.

DANIELA GILBOA, 20, was a soldier based at Kibbutz Nahal Oz. In July
2024 a Hamas hostage video was published, in which she appealed to the
Israeli government to bring her and the other hostages home. Daniela
was released on 25 January.

KARINA ARIEV, a 20-year-old soldier, was serving at the Nahal Oz army
base when she was kidnapped. Her sister Alexandra told the BBC she
heard shooting as Karina called her during the attack, and later saw a
video showing Karina being taken away in a vehicle. She returned to
Israel on 25 January.

LIRI ALBAG, 19, had just started military training as an Army lookout
at the Nahal Oz base when Hamas attacked. Her family say that she has
managed to pass messages back to them through released hostages. Liri
was also released on 25 January.

EMILY DAMARI, 28, who holds dual British-Israeli nationality, was
taken hostage from Kibbutz Kfar Aza. She was one of the three Israeli
women who became the first of the 33 hostages due to be released by
Hamas under the ceasefire deal that took effect on 19 January 2025.

DORON STEINBRECHER, 31, a Romanian-Israeli veterinary nurse, was in
her apartment in Kibbutz Kfar Aza when Hamas attacked. At 10:30 on 7
October, she sent a voice message to friends: "They've arrived, they
have me." Doron was also freed on the first day of the new ceasefire.

The third woman to be released was ROMI GONEN, 24, who was ambushed as
she tried to escape from the Supernova festival.

BODIES OF HOSTAGES RELEASED IN 2025:

On 26 February 2025, Hamas handed over the bodies of four male Israeli
hostages, in the final exchange scheduled during the six-week-long
first phase of the ceasefire deal.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu alleged that three of the
men - OHAD YAHALOMI, 50, TSACHI IDAN, 50, and ITZIK ELGARAT, 69 -
"were murdered while held hostage in Gaza". The fourth, SHLOMO
MANSOUR, 86, was "murdered in the 7 October 2023 massacre and his body
had been held in the Gaza Strip", he said.

The previous week, Hamas handed over the bodies SHIRI BIBAS, 32, and
her two young sons, ARIEL AND KFIR BIBAS, as well as ODED LIFSCHITZ,
an 84-year-old veteran peace activist.

Kfir, aged nine months, from Kibbutz Nir Oz, was the youngest of the
hostages snatched on 7 October 2023. His brother, Ariel, was just
four.

In November 2023, Hamas said an Israeli air strike in Gaza had killed
Shiri and her sons. However, after their bodies handed over, the
Israeli military's spokesman said post-mortem exams and intelligence
showed the boys had been murdered by their captors "with their bare
hands". The Israeli prime minister said later that Shiri was also
murdered.

ODED LIFSHITZ was dragged by gunmen from his home in Kibbutz Nir Oz on
7 October 2023 and taken to Gaza alive. The Israeli prime minister's
office said he was "murdered in captivity" by Palestinian Islamic
Jihad.

HOSTAGES RESCUED IN 2024

On 27 August 2024, the Israeli Defence Force (IDF) rescued KAID FARHAN
ELKADI, 52, a father of 11 and grandfather of one, in a "complex
operation in the southern Gaza Strip". Mr Elkadi is from a Bedouin
village in the Negev desert and had been working as a security guard
at Kibbutz Magen when he was abducted.

The IDF rescued NOA ARGAMANI, 26, ALMOG MEIR JAN, 22, ANDREI KOZLOV,
27, and SHLOMI ZIV, 41, in a daylight raid in central Gaza on 8 June
2024. The IDF said they were freed during a "high-risk, complex
mission" from two separate buildings in the Nuseirat area. It happened
as scores of Palestinians were killed by Israeli attacks in the same
area.

FERNANDO MARMAN, 60, and LOUIS HAR, 70, were rescued during fighting
in the city of Rafa, in southern Gaza, on 12 February.

HOSTAGES FREED IN NOVEMBER 2023

Eighty-one Israeli hostages were released during a temporary truce in
the last week of November 2023.

AMIT SOUSSANA, a 40-year-old lawyer who had been abducted from Kfar
Aza. After her release she told the New York Times that she had been
sexually assaulted by a guard during her captivity.

MIA SCHEM, 21, who holds dual French-Israeli nationality. She appeared
in the first hostage video released by Hamas saying that she had been
abducted from the Supernova festival.

AISHA ZYADNA, 16, and her brother BILAL, 18, were released, but their
brother Hamza, and their father, Youssef, were killed in captivity.

NILI MARGALIT, 41, a nurse, who had been kidnapped from her home in
Kibbutz Nir Oz.

SHANI GOREN, 29, who had been taken from Nir Oz and later seen by
family members in a video posted by Hamas. The granddaughter of
Uruguayan nationals, she was granted citizenship following her
abduction.

ILANA GRITZEWSKY 30, had been taken hostage from Nir Oz along with her
partner, Matan Zanguaker, who remains a hostage.

RAYA ROTEM, 54, was released on 29 November 2023, a few days after her
daughter HILA ROTEM SHOSHANI, 13. They had been kidnapped from Kibbutz
Be'eri.

ITAY REGEV, 18, and his sister, MAYA REGEV, 21, who had been taken
from the Supernova music festival.

AMIT SHANI, 16, the only member of his family taken when Hamas gunmen
broke into safe room at his home in Kibbutz Be'eri.

Also taken from Be'eri was OFIR ENGEL, 18, an Israeli-Dutch national,
who was visiting his girlfriend, Yuval, when Hamas arrived. He was
abducted along with Yuval's father, Yossi Sharabi, who was later
killed in captivity by an Israeli airstrike. Yossi's brother, Eli
Sharabi, was released by Hamas on 8 February 2025 after 15 months in
captivity.

GALI TARSHANSKY, 13, had also been kidnapped from Be'eri. Her brother,
Lior, was killed in the attack.

YARDEN ROMAN-GAT, a 36-year-old German-Israeli citizen, who was
abducted from Be'eri. Her husband Alon, and three-year-old Gefen
managed to escape.

RAZ BEN AMI, 57, had been captured at Kibbutz Be'eri along with her
husband Ohad, who remains a captive.

MORAN STELLA YANAI, 40, was released on the same day in November 2023.
In an interview with the BBC in April 2024, she described how she had
coped with her 54-day ordeal.

LIAT ATZILI, 49, a dual US-Israeli citizen was also released.

MIA LEIMBERG, 17, her mother GABRIELA, 59, and Mia's aunt CLARA
MARMAN, 63 were all released after being kidnapped from Nir Yitzhak.

SAPIR COHEN, 29, had been kidnapped along with her partner, Sasha
Troufanov (who remains a hostage), and his mother and grandmother,
LENA TROUFANOV, 50, and IRENA TATI, 73. Both older women held dual
Russian-Israeli nationality, and Hamas said their release was a
"tribute" to Russian President Vladimir Putin - who refused to condemn
the group following the 7 October attacks - and not part of the deal
with Israel.

Hamas also released another Russian-Israeli on the same grounds. RONI
KRIVOI, 25, was working as a sound engineer at the Supernova music
festival when he was kidnapped.

SHARON ALONI CUNIO, 34, and her three-year-old twin daughters EMA and
YULY, were released, but David Cunio, Sharon's husband and father of
the two girls, remains in Gaza.

The four were kidnapped from Nir Oz along with Sharon's sister,
DANIELE ALONI, and her six-year-old daughter EMILIA. Both were also
released.

OR YAAKOV, 16, and his younger brother YAGIL, who turned 13 during
captivity, were freed, but their father, Yair Yaakov, was killed in
the attack. Yair's partner MEIRAV TAL, 53, was also released.

RIMON BUCHSHTAV KIRSHT, 36, was taken hostage along with her husband
Yagev. She was freed, but he died while being held hostage in Gaza.

Siblings SAHAR KALDERON, 16, and EREZ, 12, were released after being
taken by Hamas from Nir Oz.

KARINA ENGEL-BART, 52, and her two daughters MIKA ENGEL, 18, and YUVAL
ENGEL, 11, were released.

EITAN YAHALOMI, 12, was freed but his father, Ohad, who was shot and
injured as he tried to defend their family home in Nir Oz, is believed
to be a hostage.

MORE ON ISRAEL-GAZA WAR

EMILY HAND, 9, was released after being held in Gaza without any of
her family. The Irish-Israeli girl, who went missing from Be'eri,
turned nine while she was a hostage.

DORON KATZ ASHER, 34, and her two daughters RAZ, four, and AVIV, two,
were released after being taken captive near the Gaza border.

HAGAR BRODUTCH, 40, was released along with her children ORIA, 4,
YUVAL, 8, and OFFRI,10. All four had been abducted from their home at
Kibbutz Kfar Aza.

Also released with the Brodutch family was four-year-old
Israeli-American AVIGAIL IDAN, whose parents had been attacked and
killed.

OHAD MUNDER-ZICHRI, 9, his mother, KEREN MUNDER, 54, and his
grandmother RUTHI MUNDER, 78, were kidnapped from Nir Oz. Ohad's ninth
birthday took place while he was in Gaza. Another family member,
Avraham Munder, was killed in captivity.

NOAM OR, 17, and his sister ALMA, 13, were released on 25 November.
Their brother, LIAM OR, 18, was released a few days later. They had
been taken from their home in Be'eri. The body of Yonat, the
children's mother, was identified among the 120 people killed at the
kibbutz. In May 2024 Be'eri announced that the children's father, Dror
- who was initially thought to be a hostage - had also been killed in
the attack.

Sisters DAFNA, 15, and ELA ELYAKIM, 8, were released after being taken
from their home in Nir Oz. They were part of a family group whose
capture was livestreamed by the attackers.

CHEN ALMOG-GOLDSTEIN, 48, and her children TAL, 8, GAL, 11, and AGAM,
17, were released. Chen's husband, Nadav, and their 20-year-old
daughter, Yam, were killed during Hamas's attack on Kibbutz Kfar Aza.

TAMAR METZGER, 78, was freed but her husband Yoram was killed in Gaza.
His body was later recovered by Israeli troops and brought home.

DITZA HEIMAN, 84, had been abducted from the safe room of her house in
Nir Oz. A former social worker, she was one of the Kibbutz's founding
members. Her late husband, Zvi Shdaimah had come to the UK on the
Kindertransport, the organised rescue of children from Nazi-controlled
Europe.

OFELIA ADIT ROITMAN, 77, is a former head teacher who had been taken
from Kibbutz Nir Oz by Hamas.

ADA SAGI, who turned 75 while in captivity, had been abducted from her
home in Kibbutz Nir Oz.

NORALIN "NATALY" BABADILA - or NORALIN AGOJO in some reports - is 60,
and had been visiting Kibbutz Nirim to celebrate the community's 70th
anniversary when she was kidnapped by Hamas. Her partner, Gideon, was
murdered that day.

HANNA KATZIR, 77, had abducted from Nir Oz, along with her son, Elad
Katzir, 47. Elad's body was recovered by Israeli forces in Khan Younis
in April 2024.

CHANNAH PERI, 79, was taken hostage along with her son Nadav
Popplewell, 51. Nadav's body was recovered by Israeli forces from an
underground tunnel in the Khan Younis area in August 2024.

DR SHOSHAN HARAN, 67, had been kidnapped from her home in Kibbutz
Be'eri. She was released along with her daughter ADI SHOHAM, 38, and
Adi's children, NAVE, eight, and YAHEL, three. Dr Haran's husband,
Avshalom - an economist and dual German-Israeli citizen - was killed
in the Hamas attack, while Adi's husband, Tal Shoham, 38, remains in
captivity.

Also released were SHARON AVIGDORI, 52, a drama therapist, and her
daughter NOAM, 12, who are relatives of Dr Haran and were kidnapped
from Be'eri at the same time.

YAFA ADAR, 85, had been kidnapped from Nir Oz. Her grandson Tamir, 38,
was killed while defending the kibbutz as part of its emergency squad.

SHIRI WEISS, 53 and her daughter NOGA, 18, had been taken from Be'eri.
Shiri is an accountant for the kibbutz's agricultural association. Her
husband (and Noga's father), Ilan, was killed during the attack.

ADRIENNE AVIVA SEIGEL, 62, had been taken from her home in Kfar Aza
along with her 64-year-old husband Keith, who is still among the
hostages.

MARGALIT MOZES, 78, had been abducted from her home in Kibbutz Nir Oz.

ADINA MOSHE, 72, had been kidnapped from Nir Oz. Her husband Said
Moshe was killed in the attack.

After her release, ELMA AVRAHAM, 84, was airlifted to Soroka hospital
in Beersheba in a serious condition. She had lived at Kibbutz Nahal Oz
for nearly 50 years before she was kidnapped, a spokesman for the
community said.

What we know about Israel-Hamas hostage deal

HOSTAGES PREVIOUSLY FREED

Prior to the deal struck between Israel and Hamas, four hostages were
released, and another was rescued by Israeli forces:

FOREIGN NATIONALS

Twenty foreign workers were released during the temporary truce of
November 2023. Nineteen of these were from Thailand.

BOONTHOM PANKHONG, 39, and his girlfriend, NATTHAWAREE MULAKAN, were
released by Hamas on 24 November. Boonthom's sister Urai Chantachart
told BBC Thai that the family was "overjoyed" at the news.

It was initially feared WICHAI KALAPAT was among the Thai nationals
killed in the Hamas raid until his girlfriend received word that he
was being held hostage in Gaza. She told the BBC she was "so happy"
because she did not think he would be among those who were released.

Seven other hostages were also released on the same day. Their names
are UTHAI THUNSRI, BUDDEE SAENGBOON, BANCHA KONGMANEE, WITHOON PHUMEE,
MONGKHOL PHAJUABBOON, SANTI BOONPHROM, and UTHAI SANGNUAN. 

NATTHAPHON ONKAEW, KHOMKRIT CHOMBUA were among the four Thai nationals
released on 25 November, according to the country's prime minister,
Srettha Thavisin.

ANUCHA ANGKAEW was also freed. His wife, Wanida Maarsa, told BBC Thai
that her husband, who had been working on an avocado farm for almost
two years, was one of those taken captive by Hamas militants.

The fourth person released was MANEE JIRACHAT, who travelled to Israel
for work four years ago. He was seized by Hamas along with five other
workers who had taken cover together, according to a Thai TV interview
with his father, who had spoken to survivors.

It was announced on 26 November that WICHIAN TEMTHONG, SURIN
KESUNGNOEN and PHONSAWAN PINAKALO had been freed.

Two more Thai hostages were released on Tuesday 28 November - O-WAT
SURIYASRI and PATTANAYUTH TONSOKRI - and four were released the next
day. Their names are PIBOON RATTANIL, KONG SAELAO, JAKRAPAN SIKENA and
CHALERMCHAI SANGKAEW.

GELIENOR "JIMMY" LEANO PACHECO, 33, from the Philippines, was also
released as part of the same deal. The father of three had been
working in Israel as a caregiver to 80-year-old Amita Ben Zvi, who was
killed in the attack on Nir Oz.
