COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY AGREES TO SEVERAL TRUMP DEMANDS

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY AGREES TO TRUMP ADMINISTRATION'S DEMAND FOR MASK
BAN

Columbia University has agreed to several demands from the Trump
administration after $400m (Â£310m) in federal funding was pulled over
accusations the university failed to fight antisemitism on campus.

Columbia says face masks used for the purpose of concealing identity
are no longer allowed, and anyone involved in a protest must, when
asked, present university identification.

Friday's memo from the university comes after the Trump administration
gave Columbia a list of nine items that were required before it would
reconsider the $400m in funding.

Columbia has agreed to much of the demands, but the Trump
administration is yet to respond and it is unclear if the funding will
be restored.

"Our response to the government agencies outlines the substantive work
we've been doing over the last academic year to advance our mission,
ensure uninterrupted academic activities, and make every student,
faculty, and staff member safe and welcome on our campus," Interim
President Katrina Armstrong told students in an email on Friday.

A change that will impact academics at Columbia is the shift in its
Middle Eastern, South Asian and African Studies department. A new
official will now lead that department.

"In this role, the Senior Vice Provost will review the educational
programs to ensure the educational offerings are comprehensive and
balanced," the memo read.

Columbia says the role will "conduct a thorough review of the
portfolio of programs in regional areas across the University,
starting immediately with the Middle East".

The university will also review admission procedures to "ensure
unbiased admission processes".

Earlier this month, the Trump administration said the reason for
funding being pulled at Columbia was because of alleged "continued
inaction in the face of persistent harassment of Jewish students".

When the $400m was pulled, Secretary of Education Linda McMahon said:
"Universities must comply with all federal antidiscrimination laws if
they are going to receive federal funding".

The Trump administration had requested masks be banned on Columbia
campuses, and to allow university police to arrest "agitators" - if
negotiations about federal funding were to continue.

It is not only Columbia that has faced funding cuts, the Trump
administration has warned 60 universities that funding may be
cancelled if allegations of antisemitism on campuses are not
addressed.

This all comes in the wake of a high-profile arrest of one of
Columbia's students. Mahmoud Khalil, a Columbia graduate and campus
activist, was detained by federal immigration authorities earlier this
month.

Mr Khalil, a legal permanent US resident, faces deportation for his
role in the 2024 campus protests.

US President Donald Trump has repeatedly alleged that Mr Khalil, and
other pro-Palestinian activists, support Hamas, a group designated a
terrorist organisation by the US.

The 30-year-old's lawyers say he was exercising free speech rights to
demonstrate in support of Palestinians in Gaza and against US support
for Israel. They accused the government of "open repression of student
activism and political speech".
