WILLIAM VISITING UK TROOPS ON ESTONIAâ€“RUSSIA BORDER

WILLIAM PRAISES UKRAINE'S 'RESILIENCE' IN ESTONIA VISIT

The Prince of Wales has praised the "resilience" of Ukrainians during
his visit to Estonia, a trip taken to show support for UK troops
guarding Nato's border with Russia.

On Thursday he met with young Ukrainian refugees at a school in the
Estonian capital Tallinn.

"The Ukrainian resilience is everywhere," Prince William told the
students. "You have a very good spirit, very good souls, it's very
important."

The prince's two-day visit to the Baltic state began on Thursday with
a 35-minute meeting with Estonian President Alar Karis during which
they discussed the ongoing conflict in Ukraine.

Prince William received a very warm welcome from crowds waiting in the
cold to see him, with the prince taking onlookers' camera phones to
take selfies.

There has been talk about the royals sending signals about Canada -
and on this walkabout the prince was wearing a jacket from Canadian
company, Lululemon.

The royal visit comes amid uncertainty over the war in Ukraine and
worries about Russia's next steps.

On Friday he is due to observe soldiers training in the Baltic state,
as part of a multinational force aimed at deterring Russian aggression
on Nato's eastern flank.

The 900 UK troops in Estonia include soldiers from the Mercian
Regiment, of which Prince William is colonel-in-chief. This is
currently the British Army's biggest operational deployment overseas.

As a sign of rising tensions, earlier this week Estonia was one of the
countries on Russia's borders to withdraw from a treaty banning
anti-personnel landmines - a sign of rising tensions.

Estonia's navy has been trying to prevent sabotage of undersea cables
and the country is planning to increase military spending to 5% of its
gross domestic product (GDP).

Prince William's visit to this small, high-tech country - described as
a "mini-Sweden" by diplomatic sources - is another moment of royal
soft power, sending a message about the UK's commitment to defending
the Baltic states.

It follows a visit a few months ago by UK Prime Minister Sir Keir
Starmer.

Talking to students and staff at the University of Tallinn, the royal
visit seems to have been warmly welcomed.

It is seen as a sign of support from Western allies for a country,
with a population of only 1.3 million, keenly aware of its need for
military assistance.

The threat from Russia seems very real from their perspective.

"We're more or less preparing for war," says Catlyn Kirna, a senior
lecturer specialising in cyber-security.

GROWING CONCERN

There is already a constant wave of cyber attacks and misinformation
from Russia, which will keep "testing the water" to see how Nato
responds.

And as a former part of the Soviet empire, Estonia looks at the
current situation in Ukraine with growing concern. The capital Tallinn
has many Ukrainian flags flying alongside the Estonian.

"If Ukraine falls, we will have to fight for our lives," Catlyn says.

And with an 18-year-old son, it feels like a very personal worry.

The view from Eastern Europe, on Nato's front line, gives a much
sharper perspective on issues around Russian expansionism, Catlyn
says.

"In western Europe, it might be bad news," she says.

"For us, it's the end of the world."

Political science student Julija Raudkivi says: "[US] President
Trump's comments and behaviour created anxiety for many Estonians.

"We talk about it a lot," she says, concerned by Trump's apparent lack
of enthusiasm for the Nato alliance.

"There's definitely some underlying anxiety about the threat posed by
Russia.

"It's the proximity, we're so close."

Julija backs the push for more spending on arms and the strengthening
of Nato forces.

Since Russia's attack on Ukraine, she says: "It makes you feel like
war is just behind the door."

Liberal-arts student Sharon Kaasik says young people have grown up
hearing stories about the Soviet regime before Estonia's independence
in 1991 and there are worries about the past returning.

But she trusts in the military alliances and wants European countries
to work more closely together.

Arts and music student Sander Poldmaa, 21, wants to defend his country
and volunteers in Estonia's defence forces.

"We're a small country and Russia is right beside us," he says.

And he is unsettled by Trump's behaviour.

'DEFEND OURSELVES'

Sander wants Nato to be stronger but says it is about deterrence.

"The main point for me is that I don't want the war to happen," he
says.

"But we need the ability to defend ourselves.

"The horror of people in the front line in Ukraine, I wouldn't want
that for anyone."

Estonia has given more aid to Ukraine, as a proportion of GDP, than
any other country, four times as much in relative terms as the UK.

In the cold Spring sunshine in Tallinn, it is a reflection of how
close the threat feels.
