HOW TRUMP BLEW UP THE WORLD ORDER - AND LEFT EUROPE SCRABBLING

TRUMP HAS BLOWN UP THE WORLD ORDER - AND LEFT EUROPE'S LEADERS
SCRABBLING

THIS IS THE GRAVEST CRISIS FOR WESTERN SECURITY SINCE THE END OF WORLD
WAR TWO, AND A LASTING ONE. AS ONE EXPERT PUTS IT, "TRUMPISM WILL
OUTLAST HIS PRESIDENCY". BUT WHICH NATIONS ARE EQUIPPED TO STEP TO THE
FORE AS THE US STANDS BACK?

At 09.00 one morning in February 1947, the UK ambassador in
Washington, Lord Inverchapel, walked into the State Department to hand
the US Secretary of State, George Marshall, two diplomatic messages
printed on blue paper to emphasise their importance: one on Greece,
the other on Turkey.

Exhausted, broke and heavily in debt to the United States, Britain
told the US that it could no longer continue its support for the Greek
government forces that were fighting an armed Communist insurgency.
Britain had already announced plans to pull out of Palestine and India
and to wind down its presence in Egypt.

The United States saw immediately that there was now a real danger
that Greece would fall to the Communists and, by extension, to Soviet
control. And if Greece went, the United States feared that Turkey
could be next, giving Moscow control of the Eastern Mediterranean
including, potentially, the Suez Canal, a vital global trade route.

Almost overnight, the United States stepped into the vacuum left by
the departing British.

"It must be a policy of the United States," President Harry Truman
announced, "to support free peoples who are resisting attempted
subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressure."

It was the start of what became known as the Truman Doctrine. At its
heart was the idea that helping to defend democracy abroad was vital
to the United States' national interests.

There followed two major US initiatives: the Marshall Plan, a massive
package of assistance to rebuild the shattered economies of Europe,
and the creation of Nato in 1949, which was designed to defend
democracies from a Soviet Union that had now extended its control over
the eastern part of Europe.

It is easy to see this as the moment that leadership of the western
world passed from Britain to the United States. More accurately it is
the moment that revealed that it already had.

The United States, traditionally isolationist and safely sheltered by
two vast oceans, had emerged from World War Two as the leader of the
free world. As America projected its power around the globe, it spent
the post-war decades remaking much of the world in its own image.

The baby boomer generation grew up in a world that looked, sounded and
behaved more like the United States than ever before. And it became
the western world's cultural, economic and military hegemon.

Yet the fundamental assumptions on which the United States has based
its geostrategic ambitions now look set to change.

Donald Trump is the first US President since World War Two to
challenge the role that his country set for itself many decades ago.
And he is doing this in such a way that, to many, the old world order
appears to be over - and the new world order has yet to take shape.

The question is, which nations will step forward? And, with the
security of Europe under greater strain than at any time almost in
living memory, can its leaders, who are currently scrabbling around,
find an adequate response?

A CHALLENGE TO THE TRUMAN LEGACY

President Trump's critique of the post-1945 international order dates
back decades. Nearly 40 years ago he took out full-page advertisements
in three US newspapers to criticise the United States' commitment to
the defence of the world's democracies.

"For decades, Japan and other nations have been taking advantage of
the United States," he wrote in 1987. "Why are these nations not
paying the United States for the human lives and billions of dollars
we are losing to protect their interests?

"The world is laughing at America's politicians as we protect ships we
don't own, carrying oil we don't need, destined for allies who won't
help."

It's a position he has repeated since his second inauguration.

And the fury felt by some in his administration for what they perceive
as European reliance on the United States was apparently shown in the
leaked messages about air strikes on Houthis in Yemen that emerged
this week.

In the messages, an account named Vice-President JD Vance wrote that
European countries might benefit from the strikes. It said: "I just
hate bailing Europe out again."

Another account, identified as Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth,
responded three minutes later: "VP: I fully share your loathing of
European free-loading. It's PATHETIC."

Trump's own position appears to go beyond criticising those he says
are taking advantage of the United State's generosity. At the start of
his second presidency, he seemed to embrace Russian President Vladimir
Putin, telling Russia that Ukraine would not be granted Nato
membership and that it should not expect to get back the territory it
has lost to Russia.

Many saw this as giving away two major bargaining chips before talks
had even started. He apparently asked Russia for nothing in return.

On the flipside, certain Trump supporters see in Putin a strong leader
who embodies many of the conservative values they themselves share.

To some, Putin is an ally in a "war on woke".

The United States' foreign policy is now driven, in part at least, by
the imperatives of its culture wars. The security of Europe has become
entangled in the battle between two polarised and mutually
antagonistic visions of what the United States stands for.

Some think the division is about more than Trump's particular views
and that Europe can not just sit tight waiting for his term in office
to end.

"The US is becoming divorced from European values," argues Ed Arnold,
senior research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI)
in London. "That's difficult [for Europeans] to swallow because it
means that it's structural, cultural and potentially long-term. "

"I think the current trajectory of the US will outlast Trump, as a
person. I think Trumpism will outlast his presidency."

NATO ARTICLE 5 'IS ON LIFE SUPPORT'

The Trump White House has said it will no longer be the primary
guarantor of European security, and that European nations should be
responsible for their own defence and pay for it.

"If [Nato countries] don't pay, I'm not going to defend them. No, I'm
not going to defend them," the president said earlier this month.

For almost 80 years, the cornerstone of European security has been
embedded in Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, which states that
an attack on one member state of the alliance is an attack on all.

In Downing Street last month, just before his visit to the White
House, the Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer told me during an interview
that he was satisfied that the United States remained the leading
member of Nato and that Trump personally remained committed to Article
5.

Others are less sure.

Ben Wallace, who was defence secretary in the last Conservative
government, told me earlier this month: "I think Article 5 is on life
support.

"If Europe, including the United Kingdom, doesn't step up to the
plate, invest a lot on defence and take it seriously, it's potentially
the end of the Nato that we know and it'll be the end of Article 5.

"Right now, I wouldn't bet my house that Article 5 would be able to be
triggered in the event of a Russian attackâ€¦ I certainly wouldn't
take for granted that the United States would ride to the rescue."

According to polling by the French company Institut Elabe, nearly
three quarters of French people now think that the United States is
not an ally of France. A majority in Britain and a very large majority
in Denmark, both historically pro-American countries, now have
unfavourable views of the United States as well.

"The damage Trump has done to Nato is probably irreparable," argues
Robert Kagan, a conservative commentator, author and senior fellow at
the Brookings Institute in Washington DC who has been a long time
critic of Trump.

"The alliance relied on an American guarantee that is no longer
reliable, to say the least".

And yet Trump is by no means the first US president to tell Europe to
get its defence spending in order. In 2016 Barack Obama urged Nato
allies to increase theirs, saying: "Europe has sometimes been
complacent about its own defence."

HAS A 'FRAGMENTATION OF THE WEST' BEGUN?

All of this is great news for Putin. "The entire system of
Euro-Atlantic security is crumbling before our eyes," he said last
year. "Europe is being marginalised in global economic development,
plunged into the chaos of challenges such as migration, and losing
international agency and cultural identity."

In early March, three days after Volodymyr Zelensky's disastrous
meeting with Trump and Vance in the White House, a Kremlin spokesman
declared "the fragmentation of the West has begun".

"Look at Russia's objectives in Europe," says Armida van Rij, head of
the Europe programme at Chatham House. "Its objectives are to
destabilise Europe. It is to weaken Nato, and get the Americans to
withdraw their troops from here.

"And at the moment you could go 'tick, tick and almost tick'. Because
it is destabilising Europe. It is weakening Nato. It hasn't gone as
far as to get the US to withdraw troops from Europe, but in a few
months time, who knows where we'll be?"

'WE FORGOT THE LESSONS OF OUR HISTORY'

One of the great challenges Europe, in particular, faces from here is
the question of how to arm itself adequately. Eighty years of reliance
on the might of the United States has left many European democracies
exposed.

Britain, for example, has cut military spending by nearly 70% since
the height of the Cold War. (At the end of the Cold War, in the early
1990s, Europe allowed itself a peace dividend and began a decades-long
process of reducing defence spending.)

"We had a big budget [during the Cold War] and we took a peace
dividend," says Wallace. "Now, you could argue that that was
warranted.

"The problem is we went from a peace dividend to corporate raiding.
[Defence] just became the go-to department to take money from. And
that is where we just forgot the lessons of our history."

The prime minister told parliament last month that Britain would
increase defence spending from 2.3% of GDP to 2.5% by 2027. But is
that enough?

"It isn't enough just to stand still," argues Wallace. "It wouldn't be
enough to fix the things we need to make ourselves more deployable,
and to plug the gaps if the Americans left."

Then there is the wider question of military recruitment. "The West is
in freefall in its military recruiting, it's not just Britain," argues
Wallace.

"At the moment, young people aren't joining the military. And that's a
problem."

But Germany's new Chancellor-in-waiting, Friedrich Merz, has said
Europe must make itself independent of the United States. And
"Europeanising" NATO will require the build up of an indigenous
European military-industrial complex capable of delivering
capabilities that currently only the United States has.

Others share the view that Europe must become more self reliant
militarily - but some are concerned that not all of Europe is on board
with this.

"Where we are at the moment is that the East Europeans by and large,
don't need to get the memo," says Ian Bond, deputy director, Centre
for European Reform. "The further west you go, the more problematic it
becomes until you get to Spain and Italy."

Mr Arnold agrees: "The view in Europe now is this isn't really a
debate anymore, it's a debate of how we do it and maybe how quickly we
do it, but we need to do this now."

PIECING TOGETHER A NEW WORLD ORDER

There is a short list of "very important things" that only the United
States currently provides, according to historian Timothy Garton Ash.

"These are the so-called strategic enablers," he says. "The
satellites, the intelligence, the Patriot air defence batteries, which
are the only ones that can take down Russian ballistic missiles. And
within three to five years we [countries other than the US] should aim
to have our own version of these.

"And in this process of transition, from the American-led Nato [the
idea is] you will have a Nato that is so Europeanised that its forces,
together with national forces and EU capacities, are capable of
defending Europe - even if an American president says 'leave us out of
this'."

The question is how to achieve this.

Ms van Rij stresses that, in her view, Europe does need to build a
Europe-owned European defence industrial base - but she foresees
difficulties.

"What's really difficult are the divisions within Europe on how to
actually do this and whether to actually do this."

The European Commission and experts have been trying to figure out how
this defence may work for several decades. "It has traditionally been
very difficult because of vested national interests... So this is not
going to be easy."

In the meantime, Trump appears ready to turn the page on the post-Cold
War rules-based international order of sovereign states that are free
to choose their own destinies and alliances.

What he seems to share with Vladimir Putin is a desire for a world in
which the major powers, unconstrained by internationally agreed laws,
are free to impose their will on smaller, weaker nations, as Russia
has traditionally done in both its Tsarist and Soviet Empires. That
would mean a return to the "spheres of interest" system that prevailed
for 40 years after the Second World War.

We don't know exactly what Donald Trump would do were a Nato country
to be attacked. But the point is that the guarantee of US help can no
longer be taken for granted. That means Europe has to react. Its
challenge appears to be to stay united, finally make good on funding
its own defence, and avoid being drawn into the "sphere of influence"
of any of the big powers.

BBC InDepth_ is the home on the website and app for the best analysis,
with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting
on the biggest issues of the day. And we showcase thought-provoking
content from across BBC Sounds and iPlayer too. You can send us your
feedback on the InDepth section by clicking on the button below._

Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America
correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter.
Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up
here.
