ANDREW AND TRISTAN TATE MAKE POLICE APPEARANCE IN ROMANIA 

TATE BROTHERS_ _REPORT TO ROMANIAN POLICE AFTER RETURN FROM US

British-American influencer Andrew Tate and his brother Tristan have
appeared at a police station after returning to Romania from the US.

The brothers registered with the authorities in the capital,
Bucharest, in a legal formality to demonstrate their compliance with
an ongoing criminal investigation.

They are under investigation in Romania for forming an organised
criminal group, human trafficking, trafficking of minors and money
laundering. Andrew also faces allegations of rape and sex with a
minor. The pair deny all accusations.

After leaving the police station, Andrew, 38, refused to say whether
he would remain in Romania, but vowed to clear his name both there and
in the UK.

The brothers returned to Romania on Friday nearly a month after they
unexpectedly had their travel ban lifted by the authorities.

Soon after, the pair announced they flew on a private jet to Florida -
where they quickly became the focus of a new investigation.

Florida's state attorney-general launched a criminal inquiry into the
brothers, welcomed by the US National Centre on Sexual Exploitation,
which represents one of Tate's alleged victims.

The brothers' exit from Romania led to speculation that prosecutors
felt political pressure from President Donald Trump - whom they
support. Trump has denied any knowledge of their release and the Tates
have dismissed claims of outside influence.

Replying to a question about the US charges today, Andrew denied them
and said: "I am investigated everywhere on the planet, because I am
one of the most important people on the planet."

He also said there was a "witch hunt" against him.

The pair were arrested in Romania in late 2022 amid accusations of
misleading women and transporting them to Romania where they were
later sexually exploited and subjected to physical violence.

The pair are also the subjects of a separate investigation in the UK
into allegations of rape and human trafficking, which they deny.

British authorities have secured a warrant over allegations of sexual
aggression dating back to 2012, meaning the brothers could face
extradition once Romanian proceedings conclude.

Last month, Romanian authorities warned the Tates they must return for
a court appearance or risk "a higher custodial measure".

Andrew, who has been banned from several social media platforms for
his misogynistic views and hate speech, later told his 10 million
followers on X that he had spent $185,000 (Â£142,800) on a private jet
to "sign one single piece of paper in Romania".

The BBC asked Andrew on Monday about his inflammatory tweets in the
aftermath of the Southport attack in the UK last year in which three
girls at a summer holiday dance and yoga class were stabbed to death
and he falsely claimed the attacker was an illegal immigrant. Tate
called the BBC correspondent "a nobody" before being driven away.
