TRUMP SUGGESTS US CONTROL OF UKRAINEâ€™S POWER PLANTS IN ZELENSKY CALL

TRUMP SUGGESTS US COULD RUN UKRAINE'S POWER PLANTS

US President Donald Trump has held what he described as a "very good"
hour-long phone call with his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr
Zelensky, a day after speaking to Russia's President Vladimir Putin.

Zelensky said afterwards that he believed that "lasting peace can be
achieved this year" under Trump's leadership.

Possible US ownership of Ukraine's nuclear power plants was also
discussed, the White House said, though this has been ruled out by
Zelensky.

The tone of the call seems to be in contrast to Zelensky's visit to
the White House last month, in which the two leaders - along with US
Vice-President JD Vance - were involved in a tense exchange.

Wednesday marked the first time the two men have spoken since that
Oval Office meeting - although since then, their teams have met in
Saudi Arabia and negotiated a proposed 30-day ceasefire.

While it is backed by Ukraine and the US, Putin rejected the proposal
for a widespread pause in the conflict during his phone call with the
US president on Tuesday.

In his conversation with Trump, Zelensky said he was open to a partial
ceasefire involving a halt on strikes on energy infrastructure, rail
and port facilities that could be established quickly - but the
Ukrainian president warned his country would retaliate if Moscow
violated the terms of the ceasefire.

"I understand that until we agree [with Russia], until there is a
corresponding document on even a partial ceasefire, I think that
everything will fly," he said, referring to drones and missiles.

While both Zelensky and Putin have said they would agree to halt
attacks on energy infrastructure, both have since accused each other
of continued attacks.

Writing on his Truth social platform, Trump said the call was aimed at
aligning Ukraine and Russia "in terms of their requests and needs",
adding that ceasefire efforts were on track.

Later, in a more detailed statement, US Secretary of State Marco Rubio
said Trump had agreed to help Ukraine source additional air defence
systems, particularly in Europe.

The two leaders "agreed to share information closely between their
defence staffs as the battlefield situation evolved", he said.

Rubio's statement also said Trump and Zelensky had discussed
"Ukraine's electrical supply and nuclear power plants" with Trump
saying the US "could be very helpful in running those plants with its
electricity and utility expertise".

"American ownership of those plants would be the best protection for
that infrastructure and support for Ukrainian energy infrastructure,"
Rubio's statement added.

But when asked about the suggestion at a news conference in Norway on
Thursday, Zelensky said: "All nuclear power plants belong to the
people of Ukraine. These are state-owned nuclear power plants."

Zelensky said that he and Trump had discussed the nuclear power plant
at Zaporizhzhia, located in Russian-held territory, but that he had
told the US president: "If it does not belong to Ukraine, it will not
work for anybody."

He added that he "definitely did not discuss" a change of ownership,
but had told Trump he was "open to discuss" the US taking the
Zaporizhzhia plant from Russia to invest in and modernise.

The latest developments will come as a relief for Zelensky, who
described his conversation with Trump as "positive", "frank" and "very
substantive" during an online briefing to journalists on Wednesday.

Zelensky also said he believed Putin would not agree to a full
ceasefire while Ukrainian troops remained in Russia's western Kursk
region, on which Kyiv launched a surprise attack last August.

Trump, meanwhile, said: "Much of the discussion was based on the call
made yesterday with President Putin in order to align both Russia and
Ukraine in terms of their requests and needs."

Teams from Ukraine and the US are expected to meet in Saudi Arabia in
the coming days.

In the White House last month, Trump told Zelensky he was not thankful
enough for US military and political support, and that he was
"gambling with World War Three".

The US temporarily then suspended military aid and intelligence
sharing with Ukraine, but diplomats were able to improve relations and
on 11 March the two sides agreed on a ceasefire.

During his call with Trump on Tuesday, Putin agreed to halt Russian
attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure.

But he said a full ceasefire would only work if Ukraine's supporters
stopped giving military assistance - a condition Kyiv's European
allies have previously rejected.

Hours later both Ukraine and Russia launched attacks, with Kyiv saying
hospitals had been targeted.

Officials in the southern Russian region of Krasnodar said that a
Ukrainian drone attack sparked a small fire at an oil depot.

Despite the strikes, Kyiv and Moscow carried out an exchange of
prisoners on Wednesday. Each side released 175 POWs.

Zelensky described the swap as "one of the largest", adding that
Russia included an extra 22 "severely wounded" soldiers.
