US TO IMPORT EGGS FROM TURKEY AND SOUTH KOREA TO EASE PRICES

US TO IMPORT MILLIONS OF EGGS FROM TURKEY AND SOUTH KOREA TO EASE
PRICES

The Trump administration is planning to import eggs from Turkey and
South Korea and is in talks with other countries in hopes of easing
all-time high prices for the American consumer, officials confirmed.

"We are talking in the hundreds of millions of eggs for the short
term," Agriculture Secretary Brooke Rollins told reporters at the
White House.

It follows the administration's announcement of a $1bn (Â£792m) plan
to combat a raging bird flu epidemic that has forced US farmers to
cull tens of millions of chickens.

Despite President Trump's campaign promise to reduce prices, the cost
of eggs has surged more than 65% over the past year, and it is
projected to rise by 41% in 2025.

Rollins said her department was also in talks with other countries to
secure new supplies, but did not specify which regions.

"When our chicken populations are repopulated and we've got a full egg
laying industry going again, hopefully in a couple of months, we then
shift back to our internal egg layers and moving those eggs out onto
the shelf, " she said.

Polish and Lithuanian poultry associations said on Friday they had
also been approached by US embassies regarding possible egg exports,
the AFP reported.

"Back in February, the American embassy in Warsaw asked our
organisation whether Poland would be interested in exporting eggs to
the US market," Katarzyna Gawronska, director of the National Chamber
of Poultry and Feed Producers, told the news agency.

In February, the US Department of Agriculture unveiled a $1bn,
five-point plan to tackle the price of eggs, with a budget of $500m
for biosecurity measures, roughly $100m for vaccine research and
development, and $400m for farmer financial relief programs.

The Trump administration said it will provide commercial egg farms
with best practices and consulting services for free, and pay up to
75% of the costs to address vulnerabilities to help prevent the spread
of bird flu.

"Our plan was to invest a significant amount of money to do audits
across the country to have USDA help these egg laying companies to
secure their barns," Rollins said. "...and since we began doing that
most recently, we've seen a significant decline in the bird flu."

Though the avian flu, or H5N1, has circulated among American poultry
flocks for years, an outbreak starting in 2022 has wreaked havoc on
farms, killing more than 156 million birds and sending egg prices
skyrocketing.

Egg prices became a rallying point for Trump in last year's
presidential run as he sought to capitalise on voters' frustrations
with the rising cost of essential items.

During his address to the US Congress earlier this month, he blamed
the soaring egg prices on his predecessor Joe Biden.

"Joe Biden especially let the price of eggs get out of control - and
we are working hard to get it back down," he added.

Egg prices rose as the Biden administration directed millions of
egg-laying birds to be culled last year amid a bird flu outbreak,
though prices have continued rising during the early stages of Trump's
second presidency.
