TRUMP ENVOY STEVE WITKOFF DISMISSES STARMER PLAN FOR UKRAINE

TRUMP ENVOY DISMISSES STARMER PLAN FOR UKRAINE

Sir Keir Starmer's plan for an international force to support a
ceasefire in Ukraine has been dismissed as "a posture and a pose" by
Donald Trump's special envoy.

Steve Witkoff said the idea was based on a "simplistic" notion of the
UK prime minister and other European leaders thinking "we have all got
to be like Winston Churchill".

In an interview with pro-Trump journalist Tucker Carlson, Witkoff
praised Vladimir Putin, saying he "liked" the Russian president.

"I don't regard Putin as a bad guy," he said. "He's super smart."

Witkoff, who met Putin 10 days ago, said the Russian president had
been "gracious" and "straight up" with him. Putin told him, he added,
that he had prayed for Trump after an assassination attempt against
him last year. He also said Putin had commissioned a portrait of the
US president as a gift and Trump was "clearly touched by it".

During the interview, Witkoff repeated various Russian arguments,
including that Ukraine was "a false country" and asked when the world
would recognise occupied Ukrainian territory as Russian.

Witkoff is leading the US ceasefire negotiations with both Russia and
Ukraine but he was unable to name the five regions of Ukraine either
annexed or partially occupied by Russian forces.

He said: "The largest issue in that conflict are these so-called four
regions, Donbas, Crimea, you know the names and there are two others."

The five regions - or oblasts - are Luhansk, Donetsk, Zaporizhzhia,
Kherson and Crimea. Donbas refers to an industrial region in the east
that includes much of Luhansk and Donetsk.

Witkoff made several assertions that are either not true or disputed:

The US is set to hold separate talks in Saudi Arabia with Ukraine and
Russia about a ceasefire at meetings over Sunday and Monday.

Ahead of that, Ukrainian authorities said Russia had launched drone
attacks on Kyiv overnight, resulting in deaths of three people,
including a five-year-old child.

Officials said that eight people had been injured.

Russia also struck the southern city of Zaporizhzhia on Friday,
killing a family of three.

Meanwhile, on Sunday Russia's ministry of defence said it had shot
down 59 Ukrainian drones across a number of regions in the south as
well as in Crimea, the peninsula illegally annexed by Russia in 2014.

During his interview, Witkoff also repeated several Kremlin talking
points about the cause of Russia's full-scale invasion.

He said it was "correct" that from the Russian perspective the
partially occupied territories were now part of Russia: "The elephant
in the room is, there are constitutional issues within Ukraine as to
what they can concede to with regard to giving up territory. The
Russians are de facto in control of these territories. The question
is: will the world acknowledge that those are Russian territories?"

He added: "There's a sensibility in Russia that Ukraine is just a
false country, that they just patched together in this sort of mosaic,
these regions, and that's what is the root cause, in my opinion, of
this war, that Russia regards those five regions as rightfully theirs
since World War Two, and that's something nobody wants to talk about."

Putin has repeatedly said that the "root causes" of his invasion were
the threat posed to Russia by an expanded Nato and the sheer existence
of Ukraine as an independent country.

Witkoff said in the Tucker Carlson interview: "Why would they want to
absorb Ukraine? For what purpose? They don't need to absorb Ukraineâ€¦
They have reclaimed these five regions. They have Crimea and they have
gotten what they want. So why do they need more?"

Asked about Keir Starmer's plans to forge a "coalition of the willing"
to provide military security guarantees for a post-war Ukraine,
Witkoff said: "I think it's a combination of a posture and a pose and
a combination of also being simplistic. There is this sort of notion
that we have all got to be like [British wartime prime minister]
Winston Churchill. Russians are going to march across Europe. That is
preposterous by the way. We have something called Nato that we did not
have in World War Two."

He said a ceasefire in the Black Sea would be "implemented over the
next week or so" and "we are not far away" from a full 30-day
ceasefire.

He also gave details of how Trump wanted to co-operate with Russia
after relations had been normalised. "Who doesn't want to have a world
where Russia and the US are doing collaboratively good things
together, thinking about how to integrate their energy polices in the
Arctic, share sea lines maybe, send LNG gas into Europe together,
maybe collaborate on AI together?"
