TURKEY PROTESTS: SIXTH NIGHT OF DEMONSTRATIONS AS ERDOGAN HITS OUT AT
UNREST

SIXTH NIGHT OF PROTESTS IN TURKEY AS ERDOGAN HITS OUT AT UNREST

Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has blamed opposition parties
for provoking a "movement of violence" as protests in the country
continued for a sixth night.

Unrest began in Istanbul last Wednesday when the city's Mayor Ekrem
Imamoglu - Erdogan's main political rival - was detained on corruption
charges.

Imamoglu said the allegations against him were politically motivated,
a claim Erdogan has denied.

Turkey's main opposition party, the Republican People's Party's (CHP),
which announced Imamoglu as its presidential candidate on Sunday, said
the demonstrations will end on Tuesday, without saying what the next
steps would be.

Erdogan has labelled the demonstrations "evil" and blamed the
opposition for "disturbing the peace of our citizens with
provocations".

Speaking from Ankara, Turkey's capital, Erdogan called for the
protests to end and said that "instead of responding to allegations",
opposition parties had "made the most vile and unlawful statements in
our political history for [the past] five days".

On Monday, vehicles carrying water cannons were seen close to the city
hall, though protests appeared to be largely peaceful with no repeat
of the fierce clashes seen on Sunday.

Lydia, one of the demonstrators, told AFP that the Turkish authorities
were "hunting us like pests", adding: "They sprayed pepper spray on us
like insecticides."

Young people - many of whom may not know any other government than
this one under Erdogan - have played an important role in the
protests.

They have differing political views and do not appear to be affiliated
with a particular political movement at the protests. They are
rallying against the government, but they do not hesitate to criticise
the opposition as well.

Asked if she is afraid of the potential repercussions of
demonstrating, one woman told the BBC: "There is nothing left to
lose."

Another, a 25-year-old woman who attended Sunday's protest, said she
was afraid before - "but now I'm just angry".

In figures released before Monday evening's gatherings, the Turkish
government said 1,133 people had been arrested since the protests
began.

With the CHP apparently ending its rallies in Istanbul, it is unclear
if other spontaneous protests will continue.

CHP leader Ozgur Ozel spoke to the thousands gathered on Monday night,
telling the crowd that the demonstration was "an act of defiance
against fascism".

Ozel said he would visit Imamoglu in jail in Silivri on Tuesday. He
added that the CHP would appeal for him to be released pending trial,
and for his trial to be shown live on state broadcaster TRT.

Imamoglu was confirmed as the CHP's candidate for Turkey's 2028
presidential election on Monday, despite being in custody. The
selection vote was symbolic as he had been the only person running.

He had spent the previous night in jail after being formally arrested
and charged with "establishing and managing a criminal organisation,
taking bribes, extortion, unlawfully recording personal data and
rigging a tender". He was also suspended from his post as mayor.

Prosecutors had also accused him of "aiding an armed terrorist
organisation", but this was not included in the charges.

Before he was detained, Istanbul University said it was revoking
Imamoglu's degree. If upheld, it would throw his presidential run into
question, as the Turkish constitution requires presidents to have
completed higher education.

In a post on X over the weekend, Imamoglu said he would "never bow"
and criticised his arrest as a "black stain on our democracy".

His wife, Dilek Kaya Imamoglu, told demonstrators outside Istanbul's
city hall that the "injustice" her husband faced had "struck a chord
with every conscience".

Much of the protesters' anger is directed at Erdogan and his
government.

"I don't know what he did 20 years ago, but nowadays, he is just a
dictator," Irmak, a 22-year-old university student, told the BBC World
Service at a demonstration in the Sarachane area of Istanbul.

Irmak and her friends, Ozge and Elif, said they had activated the
location sharing feature on their phones, as they fear being detained
by police.

These demonstrations have been the largest in Turkey since the Gezi
protests of 2013, which began in Istanbul over the demolition of a
local park.

They have been largely peaceful, but on Sunday police officers fired
water cannons and used pepper spray as clashes unfolded.

"We are the fruits of the trees of the Gezis," Irmak said. "We are
here to protect democracy. It's not just about Ekrem Imamoglu - it's
about Turkey's democracy."

Imamoglu was one of more than 100 people detained last week as part of
an investigation. Others arrested included politicians, journalists
and businessmen.

"We are not accepting this injustice," Mustafa, among the protesters,
told the BBC. "We want democracy and we want our friends back because
Imomoglu is not the only one behind the bars right now."

He added: "We want to re-establish democracy in this country and we
want to save the republic from this authoritarian populist regime. And
for the short term, we just want our mayor back, we want our friends
back."

Imamoglu's arrest does not prevent his candidacy or election as
president, but he will not be able to run if he is convicted of any of
the charges against him.

The opposition mayor is seen as one of the most formidable rivals of
Erdogan, who has held office in Turkey for 22 years as both prime
minister and president.

Erdogan's term in office is due to expire in 2028, and under the
current rules, he cannot stand again â€“ but he could call an early
election or try to change the constitution to allow him to remain in
power for longer.

Turkey's Ministry of Justice has criticised those connecting Erdogan
to the arrests, and insisted on its judicial independence.

_Additional reporting by Isabella Bull_
