TURKEY PROTESTS ARE ABOUT FAR MORE THAN FATE OF ISTANBUL'S MAYOR

Beneath the acrid smell of tear gas on the night air in Istanbul,
there is a hint of something else - a whiff of panic on the part of
Turkey's long-time leader, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

One of his rivals has been put behind bars - so far, so familiar.

But the jailing of Ekrem Imamoglu, the popular mayor of Istanbul,
suggests President Erdogan is rattled â€“ and he may have gone too
far. The mayor's opposition Republican People's party (CHP), which is
summoning vast crowds onto the streets, is certainly hoping so.

Ekrem Imamoglu - always smartly turned out, even as he prepared to be
detained - is the main rival to Turkey's increasingly authoritarian
leader. He could well replace him in presidential elections due to be
held by 2028 - assuming he is free to contest them.

But this is far more than a row about the fate of Istanbul's mayor -
charismatic though he may be.

Freedom and democracy have been steadily eroded in the Erdogan era.
Many see this as a chance to call halt and stop the descent into
all-out autocracy - if it's not already too late.

And they are coming out each night braving the riot police and their
tear gas and rubber bullets, the ban on demonstrations, the road and
bridge closures, and the risk of detention.

More than 1,000 people have been detained so far - in just 5 days -
and counting. That's an indication of how easy it is to be arrested
here.

Turkey claims to be a functioning democracy - and at face value, it
is. There are elections. Voter turnout is usually high - Turks cherish
their right to go to the polls and cast their ballots. Voting is
largely fair, on the day itself.

The problem is what happens away from the polling stations.

Opposition politicians can be jailed. Critics intimidated. Protesters
arrested. The media is largely government controlled. A tweet
ridiculing the president could land you in a cell. By the time polling
day comes around there's a tsunami of pro-government coverage and the
opposition struggles to get a look in.

Ekrem Imamoglu is the type of politician who can cut through all this
and reach the voters. He's media savvy and has been elected mayor of
Istanbul three times. Now he's accused of embezzlement, taking bribes
and running a criminal organisation.

If convicted he could be barred from standing in the presidential
race. He's already appealing a previous conviction and sentence of two
years in prison, for insulting election officials.

Turkey insists that its courts are independent and simply follow the
law. Human rights activists here, and independent analysts, scoff at
that idea.

The campaign group, Human Rights Watch, said the detention of the
mayor, along with about 100 other municipal officials and politicians,
is a "politically motivated move to stifle lawful political
activities". In the past it has criticised "politicised decisions by
courts" in Turkey.

In a post on X, where he has 9.6m followers, Imamoglu said the case
against him was "a black stain on our democracy", adding: "I stand
tall. I will never bow."

That's what Erdogan, 71, may be afraid of - an opponent who is
younger, at 53, also appeals to conservative Turkish voters, and is
ready for a long fight.

So, what happens now?

The protests could gain momentum and keep spreading. That will present
a serious challenge to Erdogan. How long before his heavily armed
security forces crack down even harder? How long before someone loses
their life at a protest? There is a breaking point for every strongman
regime, and it can come with a single bullet.

The opposition intends to keep up the pressure, and the
demonstrations.

But after his two decades at the top, Erdogan still has plenty of
loyal supporters. He controls virtually all the levers of power and
seems determined to hang on. He will be banking on the demonstrations
petering out, over time.

The president and his ruling AK party will be hoping the protesters
will grow weary and go back to worrying about crushing inflation (39%
in February), and the dwindling value of the Turkish lira, rather than
free speech, and democracy.

The coming days and weeks will test the staying power of both sides.
But if there are lessons to be learned from street protests in other
authoritarian nations, a quick breakthrough looks unlikely.

You can get in touch by following this link
