WHO IS MARK CARNEY, CANADA'S LIBERAL LEADER?

WHO IS MARK CARNEY, THE POLITICAL NEWCOMER WHO HOPES TO STAY CANADA'S
PM?

The former Bank of England boss, Mark Carney, became Canada's prime
minister after he was sworn in this month. Now he will fight to stay
in the job after calling a snap general election which will see
Canadians go to the polls on 28 April.

Carney was the first non-British person to take on the top banking
role in the central bank's more than 300-year history. He had
previously steered his home country through the 2008 financial crash
as the governor of the Bank of Canada.

Unlike most PM-hopefuls, Carney has never held political office.
Still, he handily won the Liberal Party contest to replace outgoing
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in early March.

Now he is touting his experience handling global economic crises,
hoping Canadians will see him as the leader mostly likely to stand up
to US President Donald Trump who has launched a trade war on his
northern neighbour.

EARLY LIFE AND CHILDHOOD

Although Carney has travelled the globe, working in places like New
York, London and Tokyo, he was born in the remote northern town of
Fort Smith, in the Northwest Territories.

With three out of four grandparents hailing from County Mayo in
Ireland, Carney holds both Irish and Canadian citizenship. He got
British citizenship in 2018, but recently said he intends to
relinquish his British and Irish citizenship because he thinks the
prime minister should only hold Canadian citizenship.

The son of a high-school principal, he went to Harvard University on
scholarship where he played the most Canadian of sports, ice hockey.

In 1995, he earned his PhD in economics from Oxford University, where
he wrote his thesis on whether domestic competition can make an
economy more nationally competitive - a subject that is sure to come
up as Canada works to make internal trade easier in the face of
American tariffs.

"Mark was an extraordinarily versatile student, rapidly mastering new
approaches, perspectives and challenges," recalled his former doctoral
supervisor Meg Meyer, in a press release sent by the university after
Carney won the leadership race.

"These skills will undoubtedly serve him well as he leads Canada
during these turbulent times."

PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE

In 2003, he left the private sector to join the Bank of Canada as a
deputy governor, then worked for the Department of Finance as senior
associate deputy minister.

In 2007, he was appointed governor of the Bank of Canada, shortly
before global markets crashed, sending the country into a deep
recession. His leadership at the central bank is widely praised for
helping the country avoid the worst of the crisis.

Although central bankers are notoriously circumspect, he was open
about his intentions to keep interest rates low for at least a year,
after dramatically cutting them.

That move would be credited for helping businesses keep investing even
when the markets sank. He would go on to take a similar approach when
he was lured back to London - this time as the governor of the Bank of
England.

He is credited with modernising the Bank, appearing much more
frequently in the media than his predecessor.

In 2015, the Bank reduced the number of interest rate meetings from 12
to eight a year, and started publishing minutes alongside the
announcement of interest rate decisions.

Interest rates were anchored at historic lows when he took over, but
he introduced a policy of "forward guidance", where the Bank would try
to further support the economy and encourage lending by pledging not
to raise rates until unemployment fell below 7%.

Confusion about this policy saw an MP compare him to an "unreliable
boyfriend", a moniker that stuck around long after the original
controversy died down.

Unlike previous governors who generally kept a low profile, he made
controversial interventions ahead of two big constitutional
referendums.

In 2014 he warned that an independent Scotland might have to surrender
powers to the UK if it wanted to continue using the pound.

Before the Brexit referendum, he warned that a vote to leave the EU
could spark a recession.

In the wake of the leave vote, after David Cameron resigned as prime
minister and the pound plunged, he addressed the nation in a bid to
reassure the country that the financial system would operate as
normal.

He described it as his "toughest day" on the job, but said the
contingency plans the Bank put in place worked effectively.

The Bank later cut interest rates from 0.5% to 0.25% - and restarted
its quantitative easing programme to support the economy.

His final week in March 2020 saw the start of the acutest phase of the
Covid pandemic - the Bank cut rates by 0.5% to support the economy,
and Carney told the country that the economic shock "should be
temporary".

CROSSING PATHS WITH TRUMP

Carney's time at the Bank gave him plenty of experience dealing with
Donald Trump - who has not only imposed steep tariffs on Canada since
returning to office in January, but has also suggested that America
should annex its less powerful neighbour.

From 2011-18, Carney was chair of the Financial Stability Board, which
co-ordinated the work of regulatory authorities around the world,
giving him a key role in the global response to the policies of the
first Trump presidency.

He was a regular at the G20 meetings, with a pitch-side view of Trump
on the global stage.

Although he kept his thoughts on the US president to himself at the
time, he has been much more frank in recent days.

After Trump made repeated comments about making Canada the 51st state,
he was less diplomatic, comparing him to the villain in the Harry
Potter books.

"When you think about what's at stake in these ridiculous, insulting
comments of the president, of what we could be, I view this as the
sort of Voldemort of comments," Carney said.

"Like I will not even repeat it, but you know what I'm talking about."

He seems prepared to dig in his heels as the trade war continues,
noting he would continue to impose counter-tariffs "until the
Americans show us respect â€¦ and [make] credible and reliable
commitments to free and fair trade".

POLITICAL AMBITIONS

The Liberals have reportedly courted him for a decade, but until
recently the 60-year-old had brushed off the idea.

"Why don't I become a circus clown?" he told a reporter in 2012.

Things changed, however, when Trudeau stepped down in January after
his finance minister, Chrystia Freeland quit his cabinet, sparking a
party squabble that, coupled with Trudeau's tanking poll numbers, led
the prime minister to announce his resignation.

Reports suggested Trudeau had intended to replace Freeland with Carney
in the finance post.

Freeland - a personal friend - even ran against him in the race to
replace Trudeau. But Carney won by a landslide, pitching himself as
the best equipped to take on Trump, who has imposed steep tariffs on
Canadians goods.

"I know how to manage crises," Carney said during a leadership debate
late last month. "In a situation like this, you need experience in
terms of crisis management, you need negotiating skills." 

Still, his time in the world of finance has opened him up to criticism
from political rivals in Canada.

The Conservatives have accused Carney of lying about his role in
moving investment firm Brookfield Asset Management's head office from
Toronto to New York, though Carney says the recent formal decision to
relocate the firm was made after he quit the board.

They have also pushed him to disclose his financial assets over
conflict-of-interest concerns.

Carney has placed his assets in a blind trust and has said he is in
full compliance with existing conflict-of-interest rules, but has been
pressed for more transparency.

WHERE DOES CARNEY STAND ON ISSUES?

In addition to Carney's get-tough-on-Trump approach, he has proposed a
number of policies to address at-home issues as well.

He is known as an advocate for environmental sustainability. In 2019
he became a UN special envoy for climate change, and in 2021 launched
the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero, a grouping of banks and
financial institutions working to combat climate change.

One of the most contentious parts of Trudeau's platform has been the
carbon tax, which saw Canadians pay a tax on carbon emissions, and
receive a rebate. Conservatives repeatedly promised to end the tax,
which they say does little for the environment.

Shortly after being sworn in, Carney signed an order-in-council
scrapping the tax from 1 April. "This will make a difference to
hard-pressed Canadians," he said.

On immigration, Carney has advocated for a cap on current immigration
targets, in order to ensure that Canada's housing and healthcare
systems are not stressed. The issue had come to the fore last year,
with Trudeau lowering targets amid critics saying the country's
immigration system was overrun.

His biggest mission, he had said, will be to keep Canada's economy
growing, despite slowed trade with the US.

There are early signs that Carney's rhetoric is being well received -
a recent poll, conducted before Carney became PM, indicated Canadians
believe Carney is better able to deal with Trump than Conservative
Leader Pierre Poilievre.
