THAILAND PRIME MINISTER SURVIVES NO-CONFIDENCE VOTE IN PARLIAMENT 

Thai Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra (right) attends the first
day of a no-confidence debate, at the Thai Parliament in Bangkok, on
March 24, 2025.
Chanakarn Laosarakham | Afp | Getty Images

Thailand's Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra survived a
no-confidence vote today, after the country's main opposition
reportedly accused her of being unqualified and allowing her father to
wield influence over her administration.

The prime minister won the backing of 319 of 488 lawmakers present,
according to Reuters.

The opposition People's Party said she was taking direction from her
powerful father Thaksin Shinawatra, who was Thailand's prime minister
from 2001 to 2006.

Paetongtarn is also the niece of Yingluck Shinawatra, who was Thai
prime minister from 2011 to 2014 before she was removed in a coup.

In the censure debate on Tuesday, opposition MPs reportedly questioned
the prime minister's knowledge gaps and accused her of avoiding
questions from reporters.

Paetongtarn was also reportedly accused of failures over the economy
and national security, as well as tax evasion.

She was expected to survive the vote, with an analysis paper by the
ISEAS-Yusof Ishak Institute in Singapore on March 24 saying that the
opposition does not have enough votes to remove her.

The motion also comes at a time where public confidence in her
government has been low.

A poll by Thailand's National Institute of Development in February
revealed that justÂ 45.12% of respondents were satisfied with
Paetongtarn's first six months in office.

Public confidence in her coalition government's capability to resolve
national problems is even lower, at only 38.55%.

Thailand's full year GDP growth for 2024 came in at 2.5%, the weakest
among the ASEAN-6 countries, according to McKinsey, while the
country's SET index has plunged over 15% year to date.

The ASEAN-6 countries refer to Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam, the
Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia.

