CHINA, IRAN, RUSSIA KICK OFF TALKS IN BEIJING ON IRAN'S NUCLEAR ISSUES

A picture taken on November 10, 2019, shows an Iranian flag in Iran's
Bushehr nuclear power plant, during an official ceremony to kick-start
works on a second reactor at the facility.
ATTA KENARE | AFP via Getty Images

Senior diplomats from Iran, Russia and China gathered in Beijing on
Friday for talks on Tehran's nuclear issues, Chinese state broadcaster
CCTV reported, days after Tehran rejected U.S. "orders" to resume
dialogue over the Iranian nuclear program.

In 2015, Iran reached a deal with the United States, Russia, China,
Britain, France and Germany and agreed to curb its nuclear program in
exchange for the lifting of international sanctions. But in 2018,
Donald Trump, a year into his first term as U.S. president, pulled out
of the pact.

Last week, Trump said he had sent a letter to Iranian Supreme leader
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei proposing nuclear talks, adding that "there are
two ways Iran can be handled: militarily, or you make a deal".

Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian responded that he would not
negotiate with the U.S. while being "threatened", and Iran would not
bow to U.S. "orders" to talk.

Iran was further enraged after six of the United Nations Security
Council's 15 members - the U.S., France, Greece, Panama, South Korea
and Britain - held a closed-door meeting this week to discuss its
nuclear program. Tehran said the meeting was a "misuse" of the U.N.
Security Council.

In the run-up to the Beijing talks on Friday - attended by the vice
foreign ministers of China, Russia and Iran - China said it hoped the
trilateral meeting would help create "conditions" for the early
resumption of dialogue and negotiations.

Iran has long denied that it is working on developing a nuclear
weapon. But the International Atomic Energy Agency warned last month
that Tehran was "dramatically" accelerating enrichment of uranium to
near the roughly 90% weapons-grade level.

