MINTZ GROUP: CHINA FREES STAFF OF US DUE DILIGENCE FIRM AFTER TWO
YEARS

CHINA FREES STAFF OF US CONSULTANCY FIRM AFTER TWO YEARS

China has released five staff members of US due diligence firm Mintz
Group, two years after they were detained as part of a crackdown on
consulting firms working with foreign businesses.

Their detention in March 2023 came at a time of heightened suspicion
of foreign espionage in China and kicked off a wave of raids on
consultancy firms such as Bain & Company and Capvision Partners.

"We are grateful to the Chinese authorities that our former colleagues
can now be home with their families," Mintz Group said in a statement.

Their release comes at the conclusion of a business forum in Beijing
attended by dozens of top foreign executives, including Apple's Tim
Cook and Pfizer's Albert Bourla.

China has been trying to revive foreign investment in its sluggish
economy. Government data released in February showed that foreign
direct investments plunged 99% in the last three years.

At the forum on Sunday, Vice Premier He Lifeng reassured business
leaders of the country's "unswerving" commitment in "welcoming
multinational corporations and sharing development opportunities [with
them]".

Mintz Group noted that all five employees who were released are
Chinese nationals.

They were detained by China's public security bureau after a raid of
the company's Beijing office in March 2023.

Mintz Group said at that time that it did not receive any official
legal notice about the raid.

Chinese authorities have not commented on the detentions and the
subsequent release.

Later in 2023, Mintz Group was fined $1.5 million for doing
"unapproved statistical work". By the time, the company had closed all
its offices in mainland China and Hong Kong.

Reuters news agency had reported on the company's involvement in
examining the possible use of forced labour in supply chains linked to
China's Xinjiang region.
