MORE THAN 50,000 KILLED IN GAZA SINCE ISRAEL OFFENSIVE BEGAN,
HAMAS-RUN MINISTRY SAYS

More than 50,000 Palestinians have been killed during Israel's
military campaign in Gaza, the territory's Hamas-run health ministry
has announced.

That number - 50,021 - equates to about 2.1% of the 2.3 million
pre-war population of the territory, or around 1 in 46 people.

A total of 113,274 others had been injured in the same period, the
health ministry said.

Figures from the Gaza Ministry of Health (MoH) have been widely used
throughout the war and are seen as reliable by the United Nations (UN)
and international institutions. But Israel has consistently disputed
data published by Gaza's authorities.

International journalists, including the BBC, are blocked by Israel
from entering Gaza independently, so are unable to verify figures from
either side.

The figures released by the MoH for the number of people killed do not
differentiate between civilians and fighters.

In November, the UN's Human Rights Office said its analysis showed
close to 70% of verified victims over a six-month period were women
and children.

In January, The Lancet medical journal published a study which
suggested the death toll could in fact be substantially higher than
official figures reported by MoH - by up to 41%.

The war was triggered by Hamas's attack on Israel on 7 October 2023,
in which about 1,200 people, mainly civilians, were killed and 251
other taken hostage.

Israel responded to the 7 October attack with a massive military
offensive, which has caused vast destruction to homes and
infrastructure, in addition to those killed or injured.

The MoH also reported on Sunday at least 39 deaths in the last 24
hours, bringing the total number of people killed to 673 since Israel
resumed its military operations in the territory on Tuesday.
