MARK CARNEY SWORN IN AS CANADIAN PRIME MINISTER, NOW MUST FACE TRUMP

Leader of the Liberal Party of Canada Mark Carney signs documents
during his swearing-in ceremony as Canada's next Prime Minister at an
event in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, March 14, 2025.Â 
Blair Gable | Reuters

Ex-central banker Mark Carney was formally sworn in as prime minister
of Canada on Friday, putting him in a position to fight tariffs from
U.S. President Donald Trump that could devastate the trade-dependent
Canadian economy.

In the presence of Governor General Mary Simon, the personal
representative of King Charles, who is Canada's head of state, Carney
took the oath of office.

The moment capped a momentous rise for the 59-year-old, who becomes
the first Canadian prime minister without any serious political
experience.

Carney plans to travel to London and Paris next week, said a diplomat
aware of the plans. Canada has sought to shore up alliances in Europe
as its relations with the United States sink to unprecedented lows.

Carney has reshaped his cabinet with a view to dealing with
Washington. Finance Minister Dominic LeBlanc is moving to the
international trade portfolio and will be replaced by current
Innovation Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne.

Carney crushed his rivals on Sunday in a race to become leader of the
ruling Liberal Party. He replaces Justin Trudeau, who spent more than
nine years in office.

Carney, a former head of both the Bank of Canada and Bank of England,
successfully argued his position as an outsider with a history of
tackling crises meant he was the best person to take on Trump, who has
repeatedly talked about annexing Canada.

On Wednesday, Carney told reporters that he was ready to meet Trump
when "there is respect for Canadian sovereignty."

He also said he would keep in place retaliatory tariffs on U.S. goods
until the United States showed Canada some respect.

Efforts are underway to arrange a call between Trump and Carney in the
next couple of days, Canadian Foreign Minister Melanie Joly told
reporters on Friday.

Carney is due to name a cabinet that will likely not be in office for
long, since Liberal insiders say he will call a snap election within
the next two weeks.

If he changes his mind, opposition parties say they will unite to
bring down the minority Liberal government in a confidence vote at the
end of March.

Once the election is called, Carney will be very limited in what he
can do politically because convention dictates he cannot make major
decisions when running for office.

Opinion polls currently suggest it will be a close race with the
official opposition Conservatives, with neither party gaining enough
seats for a majority government.

